I am one of the directors in Wappingers Central School District.
I love seeing so many cameras on.
So as I'm talking, I see um it's,
it's like lights flickering and more faces are appearing
and um
so excited to have so many of our
Wappingers Central School District students joining us today.
So I am gonna be hopping back and forth between our screens,
but I did want to um just share a little bit about what this presentation is.
We're going to go ahead and we are going to record this session. So, um
I'm going to go ahead and ask Louise as I'm talking
to get that started,
that will allow any of our students who weren't able to log
in or if you wanna go back at a later date,
just to review some of the information our speaker shared.
I will be posting this information on our website.
We also are gonna be um this will be live streamed on our youtube website.
So that's another place that you can go to view this, this information.
So again, this is called Our Career Zoom Health Series
and this is session one of of,
well, let's see, I think we have all the way through June scheduled.
So we um are looking forward to doing that.
So I don't have access to go to the next slide.
But if Louise you want to go to the next slide for me,
I will um just explain this partnership that developed organically.
So we have two systems from the education realm. So obviously myself from Wapping
Central school district is here and also Dutchess Community College will
is on the call and worked collaboratively to bring this together.
And in addition,
we have the workforce Investment board and the Workforce Development Institute
from New York State that the four of us work together.
And we will be bringing into as you'll see today,
local and regional employers to bring some insights
to you about the health care field.
So I'll introduce everyone to you if we go to the next slide.
So again, myself,
Amy Watkins and then um Mary Jane Bertram, if you want to wave on the screen,
everyone can see who you are.
She is coming to us as the regional director
from the Workforce Development Institute through New York State.
Lorraine Koutz is from workforce development uh liaison and
she's coming to us from the Duchess Community College.
So, hello, Lorraine and obviously
um the mastermind that brought and invited us to
take part in this is Doctor Louise mclaughlin.
And um she is the executive Director
for Duchess County Workforce Investment Board So
we were really thrilled to have these ladies with us working on this together
and then our speakers for today,
uh Doctor mclaughlin is gonna be talking to you first
about an overview of the employment opportunities in our region.
So that's always important to know what is out there um Before
you pursue and put a lot of money into a career.
If there are no jobs coming in that area,
we also have Lane Belmonte coming to us to provide the employer perspective
and she is the director of Human Resources from Premier Medical Group.
So, hello, Laney
and Karen Ingham
is uh gonna be talking about education planning.
So she has many, many hats that she wears
at Dutchess Community College.
She's the department chair and assistant professor.
She um is it leads the Department of Allied
Health and Biological Sciences and also program chair,
clinical laboratory technician and phlebotomy.
So that is a mouthful. So thank you for joining us, Karen.
So just a little bit of how, how we got here through this zoom.
Um What the purpose of this is and I I sort of touched on this,
but this is an opportunity for you our students
to ask questions, to learn more about the health care profession,
to see if it is a good fit for you before you do invest money
um into an expensive college uh decision.
And from here, I just wanted to go over this the next slide
and just to give you a background that I um worked with
three of our science teachers in the district to help put together,
we developed a survey.
We had over 310 of our students respond, which is really exciting.
Um And they gave us some questions that they
would like answered from the health care profession.
And we've designed these series to give you information, but also allow you time
like the last 15 minutes. Um And maybe a little bit longer if you have more questions
for you to ask some questions at the end for our speakers.
So just a little bit of housekeeping information
are actually 1 to 2 and
um each month.
So we have these scheduled each month, they're gonna be the third Wednesday,
as I mentioned.
Um And they're gonna begin from 1230 to 115.
We chose Wednesday because those are our virtual
days and your instruction has has let out.
So um we wanted to, to make this accessible as possible.
And as many of you have already started to
do your um the housekeeping pieces on the next screen
are going to be um everyone is on mute as you can tell unless
you're the speaker and that just cuts down on the extra background noise.
So that is why everyone will be on mute.
Um We want your camera to be on,
this is your chance to make a connection with professionals.
So you do wanna be
um showing us your face and, and letting us know and getting used to that.
This is uh right now, this is how we are connecting with,
with professionals in our area because it's the safest way to, to do that.
Um When we can't be in person,
you will have access to and I will be monitoring the chat once we get going.
Um So you can ask questions and we will um be starting with our first poll
because we wanna know a little bit more about who is on this call today.
How many from, um,
you know what grade you're in? Maybe you're a parent.
So you'll see pop up on your screen.
It's gonna ask you what grade you're in or
if you're a guidance counselor or a teacher,
um, just go ahead and you can see live as the results start to pop in.
So we're pretty excited to see this.
We've got, um, almost,
we have 66% of everybody voted.
Um, and it does seem like, um,
which makes sense that the, the, the,
the highest number is coming from our 11th and 12th graders.
Um, if at any point during this, um,
you do have questions or afterwards you get a question and you're,
you're wondering about, please don't hesitate.
You see my emails come in.
If you haven't seen my emails, they're probably in your junk folder.
So definitely look for my name and, and try to find them,
but without further ado,
we looks like we have a great group of individuals here today,
um uh that have joined us the majority being
11th and 12th graders, which is absolutely perfect. So we're gonna kick it off.
I am going to turn it over to Doctor mclaughlin and she's gonna give
you an overview of what those employment opportunities look like in our region.
So, thank you, Doctor mclaughlin.
Sorry, I put my face off screen and then I couldn't find the mute button.
Um All right.
So I'm gonna just give you a little overview of
sort of like what the numbers are in terms of employment
um in general, in our five county regions.
So not just Dutchess County,
but the counties that touch our borders which are Ulster County, Orange, Putnam.
And then um we don't really want to forget Westchester County because it's just
below Putnam South of us and there's a lot of job opportunities there.
Um We're seeing um consistent job growth in health care over the past um five years.
And if you look at the top industries in the region, they,
the number one industry is health care uh along
with social assistance and then government and retail,
um the largest um
healthcare employer shouldn't surprise you is the hospitals,
but there's a lot of other employers throughout the county.
So we're gonna look at two kind of clusters.
We, we kind of look at occupations, we can look at them individually,
but we can also look them in groups and we call them like clusters.
So there's 15 health care support occupations that I pulled some data for
and they're listed on the side.
They started with home health aids, personal care aides and so on.
And when you're looking to see,
you know about um like what job opportunities are there,
you kind of look to the job postings.
So um this job supply right now is at about 48,000
650.
And compensation here is um about 30 1000 a year, almost 32,000.
And a lot of these are your entry level jobs.
Um You know, where you might want to start in, in health care.
And then if you look down,
I also included the um the average wage nationally just so
-- that you would have that as sort
-- of a point to,
to look at.
And then this data came from um Bureau of Labor
Statistics and from um uh this organization called MC.
Then when we look at um
the skills that you need, the, we talk about hard skills and soft skills.
So the hard skills are what you get from like a training
provider from a school and you might end up with a certificate,
um you know, with, with some of these.
So their, their certificates in, you know, like home care.
So when there's job postings,
they all they list
in the posting sort of what they're looking for.
So these are the things that these top
jobs and the frequency that they're looking for.
So they're looking for home care,
caregiving people that can do meal planning and preparation of nutrition, stuff,
personal care,
um nursing, CPR
-- uh medical assistance,
-- um daily
activities, life activities, rehabilitation,
and phlebotomy.
And then we look at um next we go to, we look at soft skills.
-- So
-- before I do
-- this, I want to
-- ask you a
question.
So I'm gonna launch a pulp
and this question is for students only.
So please select the answer that that best fits you. So I am currently working.
Don't click that until you read a little bit more.
Um I've had a job in the past. I've had participated in an internship
and then there's some combination.
So I currently have a job and I've done an internship,
I've had a job in the past and I've done an internship, I've not had a job,
but I'm interested in working.
I've not had an internship, internship,
but I'm interested in internship and I've not had a job or
-- internship but am interested in both or
-- none of the above.
If you're not sure
what this is about,
-- that's OK too because we'll explain more as we go
-- through the series,
I'll give it
another
20 seconds or so.
OK. Five more seconds.
OK.
OK. So just sharing the results. So people can kind of see
where everybody's at.
OK.
All right. So the reason I asked the question is
if you look at the, the top common skills, OK,
there are skills like communication,
um compassion, customer service is a big one.
Scheduling, clerical work, management, cleanliness, computer literacy,
detail oriented.
These are all skills that you can acquire in an
internship or in really almost any part time job because
these are the, the just the general skills that you need just to be able to work,
go to work, be part of a team.
Um, you know, report well with a supervisor, work well with management and so on.
And then you'll notice too that there's a valid driver's license.
A lot of these, you know, they like you to drive.
So if you, you know,
if you're inclined to drive and you can have an opportunity to learn, um,
it would be good to get a license if you can.
Um, so where, where are these folks working?
Where are the people in these healthcare support occupations,
working within the industry?
So if you go to um, a hospital
you'll see 12% of the workers there are, are in the healthcare support occupations,
in a nursing care facility.
It's more like 40%. Home health care services is the same around 37%.
And then in offices of physicians it's 18%.
And in dentist it's 33% and someone raised their hands.
Mm.
-- Do you wanna unmute
-- and do you have
something.
-- Yeah, go ahead and ask
-- your question. I'm not sure who FBI is, but go ahead.
-- They might wanna think about it or
-- they hit it by accident.
Ok. No problem.
Ok. All right.
So
-- I'm gonna do
-- another quick
call here. I hope.
Sorry, I'm not the best with,
sorry.
Oh
my. What was that
accurate?
-- Sorry
-- about that.
All right.
So we'd like to know if you want
more information on these healthcare support occupations.
So I'm gonna launch the poll and then
we have the list on the side
of uh which occupations these are.
So we're just curious to see if you want more information.
If you're not sure it's OK too.
OK. I'll give you five more seconds
just to share the results. Ok.
So, you know, for the people that are, yes,
we'll definitely be having people come in and
talk about their experience working in these jobs.
How they got trained with the day in the life is
-- um and for people that aren't sure you may just wanna like
-- tune in to see
um
what's,
-- what's what with
-- that?
Um And then the other cluster we're gonna look at
are the 56 health care practitioners and technical occupations.
We're looking at the same five county region
and it goes anywhere from, you know, acupuncturists to, you know, folks working um
um like veteran veterinarians and vet techs.
-- Um I think Amy, did you wanna Doctor Watkins? Did
-- you want to speak to this a
little.
-- Absolutely.
-- So again,
we don't expect that you're going to remember the list.
Um And they can get confusing between the difference of
the health care practitioners and the technical occupations and the support
um health care positions that were in the previous slide.
So you'll, you'll, I'll be posting these, like I said on the web page.
But what's important is in the next slide.
Uh Doctor mclaughlin is going to be talking about the difference in the salaries.
And
I think what you're gonna be hearing from
the different speakers that we have throughout the series
is that there isn't just one path that you can take to get to any of these,
some of these
can be foundational or you can use them um to build up for other positions.
So you don't always have to just say I'm going to school to
be a doctor and do all the schooling and then become a doctor.
You could start in any one of those support professions, get some experience,
get some money and be going to school at the same time.
So it's always good to understand how those two
two fields and, and how those salaries are weighing out
and just to point to the internships as well,
and we can continue to talk about this is that through the,
through the school district, we offer work based learning
and internships will um earn you credit.
Um So one, you can take work based learning as an 11th grader and as
12th grader.
So you'll, you would earn two individual credits if you did it both years.
And part of that could be through either a part time job
in any one of these fields to help you get experience,
which is great.
Um, for when you're applying to colleges, you can have practical talking points,
but also you
can
stop
it.
Sorry.
Um But also um you would have to
-- please make sure you're on mute. I'll take
-- care of that. Um
So you want to um make sure that you have access to work
based learning just to learn a little bit more about the internships too.
Ok, I'll turn it back over.
Ok, great.
Thank you.
So if we um
if we look at the the job supply, there's plenty of jobs over 50,000.
Um the compensation, the um the median is 84,900.
So almost 85,000,
you have to remember too. We saw that wide range went from. How
much money do you guys make?
We'll,
we'll let doctor mclaughlin continue and then
-- we'll have time for questions
-- afterwards.
Thank you.
Um
When we're, when we're looking at these numbers, we have to realize that um you know,
the meeting is that number in the middle.
If you look down at the bottom, you'll see the averages,
that's kind of everything added together and then averaged out.
So it, there's a, probably a little bit of a bigger range here,
but this gives you sort of an idea of what, what, you know, the salaries that,
that could be made
in these jobs.
And then, you know, you may wanna know where,
where you might work if you were a healthcare prac
practitioner or you had one of those um tech jobs.
So 50 in the hospital,
56% of the workers there will be um health care practice
commissioners or like a tech person in a physician's office.
You're looking 43% of them nursing care facilities, skilled nursing facilities,
that's 27%.
Health and personal care stores is 37% and outpatient care centers is 40%
and we'll, we'll look again here.
Now you'll see these hard skills are, you know, just so there's,
there's a lot more involved in it.
So there's more college in many of these, especially like nursing.
Um you still have your basic life support, but now you get advanced life support.
Um They like they're looking for people that
work in pediatrics with Children intensive care units,
surgery, um emergency departments, acute care and medical surgical, nursing.
-- So those are all um skills that they're looking
-- for.
And then, but what's so interesting is if you look at those, the soft skills,
the common skills, they haven't changed too much.
You know, you're still looking at communication, you're looking at management,
compassion, customer service, leadership these are all things that you learn at,
at any job or any internship that you're doing.
You may see that like management has moved up from
um the previous slides where it was much lower.
But now it, it's still important. These are all skills that we need to do.
Like planning
um uh teaching problem solving.
-- This is all stuff
-- that you, you can do in school with being
organized and
getting things in on time and, and all of that
and
-- what I wanna
-- do a quick poll here
to see who's interested.
Let's see.
So
if you would like more information on um
this 56 clusters you're gonna put. Um
Yes,
if you don't, it's no. And if you're not sure,
then you could, you not sure.
Give me 10 seconds.
Seems like
it
of interest.
Yes.
-- So
-- that's great to see.
-- Share the
-- results. So yes,
there is a lot of interest there.
That's terrific.
Great.
Ok.
-- Ok.
-- So next, I would like to introduce you.
Our, our speaker from Premier Medical Group. This is Laney
Belmonte. She is going to provide you with the employer perspective.
Um As I said, she's the director of Human Resources.
So thinking through what would a potential employer be looking for.
So go ahead, Laney.
Oh, she might be on mute.
Think you might be on mute. Laney,
I
can
meet
you.
There
you go.
How's that?
Ok.
So hello everyone. I'm glad to see so many of you interested in health care.
Um
I work in human resources at Premier Medical Group.
And uh one of the things we do in human resources is we hire people.
Um
So in that premiere,
we have many different uh types of health care
positions from those support positions that we were talking about
um through to many of the technical positions.
And one of the questions we might ask someone, you know,
in an interview when they're interviewing for a job is what
led you to the career of being in health care.
So
I wanna talk to you about reasons you might think you want to be in health care.
So one reason is you like working with people
um or you're very compassionate and you, you like caring for people.
Uh or you like science, you've enjoyed your science classes,
you like uh the research involved, you're very analytical.
Um you like to solve problems.
Uh That might be another reason why
job stability,
there is a lot of job stability in health care.
Um People are gonna continue to have Children and babies.
Um Unfortunately, illnesses um are inevitable.
Uh So there's, there's always gonna be a need for that personal care.
Uh and health care workers,
our population is growing.
So um with, with the growing population,
uh the demand for health care workers is increasing.
So many health care positions are well paid
um
as the demand increases for healthcare workers typically.
So do the, the, the salaries,
health care careers are really diverse. You can, uh go into just general medicine.
Uh, you can choose to go into a specialty.
Uh, you know, here at premiere, we have many specialties, uh,
you know, on the slide here it says foot, mouth, heart lungs.
So a podiatrist is someone who specializes with feet.
A cardiologist would specialize
with, um, with issues of the heart.
Uh Then there's also the administrative and management side.
So we have medical billing people that are, they,
they're not clinical people who are doing hands on uh patient care,
but they're still in health care and they
do uh billing or marketing or human resources.
So there's, there's other admin
of options in health care as well.
So the the good news is there's lots of choices,
there are many choices in the field of health care.
Uh Some that require 1 to 2 years of advanced study after high school.
Uh Some that might require uh four years of study or, or more and typically your,
your income will increase
the more education
you have.
So what can you guys do now to prepare for a career in health care?
One is to finish high school, get your diploma.
So that's, that's the first thing that you need to do.
Um start doing some research,
Google stuff. Look online, talk to your guidance counselors, talk to your parents,
um
perhaps talk to a healthcare professional who's doing the job,
find out what their day to day is like, what they like, what they dislike.
Um Those are all things that you can do to sort of explore this,
this um this field of study
and try to gain some experience.
There might be some internships out there.
Uh Oftentimes you can shadow a health care professional. Um We've done that here.
I've had a couple of people come through here and uh just come in for a day
and shadow someone to see what it's like to work uh in a particular uh position.
Um
We also have hired people just for summer jobs, you know, so you get a flavor of,
you know, what it's like to even be in the healthcare environment.
Uh There's some volunteer opportunities.
Uh Sometimes the nursing homes in the hospitals have volunteer hos
uh opportunities.
So, um
so the good news is, it's, it's very diverse.
Um Healthcare can be a really rewarding career.
Um I have a couple of resources here that uh I just want you to take a quick look at
because this, this could be part of your research.
Um
Louise, if you can, you click on that first link
-- and Laney while we're
-- waiting for Louise to bring up that page.
A question came in from Rebecca asking if there's um
-- um uh a minimum
-- age that you need to be in order to do
shadowing.
So,
uh we typically have uh I would say you know, 17, probably 17
and above.
Great, great.
Uh So this is uh US news and it's best health care jobs.
These are more of those technical jobs that we were looking at before.
Uh th those that typically require more education.
So you can see we'll just for, you know, demonstration purposes.
Um You can see, uh I'm sorry, Louise, the poll is still showing up on my screen.
Is there a way to
maybe I can just click it off. Thank you.
I have it.
-- I
-- got it.
So I think Louise is still putting up the, um, the link. I know sometimes it's a little
switch back and forth
but we're waiting for her to do that. Can you describe shadowing a little bit?
Um Some of our students aren't familiar with that term.
Sure.
So shadowing is where you, you might come in.
Um, maybe you're gonna shadow another medical assistant for the day.
Uh You might sit and talk with her and find out
what she's doing whether she's doing something in the computer.
Um, you know, in health care there's um,
there's privacy issues with patients so there might be limited.
Um, you know, it may be limited in terms of what you are able to know about a patient,
but you can get a sense of, you know, follow them around, see what they're doing,
watch them take a blood pressure,
um, you know, watch them, uh do vital signs, things of that nature.
So the, uh,
the resource that's there. There we go.
So this is the one that has more technical jobs.
Um, if we look down a little bit, you see the number one, these are, uh,
the technical jobs that are ranked, you know, dentist is ranked number one, a
physician assistant, number two.
but what I wanna point out is one, it'll describe a little bit about what that job is.
If you click on the read more
and then,
uh, Louise, if you could just go down just a little bit
and the o just
up a little bit,
there we go right there. Um,
oh, I think it was on the first,
the first page.
Maybe go just that one.
Ok.
So you can see there on the right hand side,
it will say the number of projected jobs in that field.
So for example, physician assistant, it says there's 37,000 projected jobs.
The median salary is 100 and 8000 and change.
The education required is a master's degree.
So this is a quick resource that you can use to look at different kinds of jobs.
Get a sense of how much schooling you'd have to do,
how many jobs are out there in that field. And what's the salary.
So, um,
um,
the second link and,
and you,
you can either pull that up or if it's being difficult, Louise, I can just speak to it.
Um, the other link that's on the first page.
Can, can you see it? Did it change for you guys? If not, I'll stop sharing with you.
You
-- have to stop in the beach here,
-- let me
of the three share.
So uh this is another link from US news. Now this is more those the support positions
uh that we were talking about.
So these typically require less schooling. Um not all but some
uh
physical therapy assistant you see here, number three and again, on the right,
you can see the projected number of jobs,
the median salary and uh that this particular job requires an associate's degree.
So again,
this is another um just another resource for you to use where
you can quickly get a description of what the job is.
See if there are lots of jobs or very little jobs available,
what the median salaries are and what uh
what education requirements there are for the position.
Great. And uh
la
would you mind?
-- There's just two,
-- two questions that
came in um And your, your advice would be great.
-- Um A
-- student was asking the best
-- way to
-- um find out about an opportunity to shadow.
Should they reach out directly to different health care?
Should they go through their guidance counselor?
-- What would be the best way for them
-- to do that?
-- Well, if the,
-- if the school has any connections uh with different um health care
uh facilities, that might be the best way then they can advocate for those students.
Um If in the absence of those,
the student can uh try to contact someone at the organization.
Um but it is probably better to have um
-- an
-- advocate,
right?
And I think like, um I can speak from the the school perspective,
work based learning would be the a great way to do that.
So for our district right now,
Mrs Noy is in charge of the work based learning program.
So if that's something um you can work
with your guidance counselor to make sure you have
work based learning on uh your schedule and then get in contact with Mrs Noy and,
and she can uh work with you on different
ways uh to reach out to the different agencies.
And I know another student had asked about an internship with a
um with a dietitian or nutritionist.
And I would say that that would work the same way from our perspective,
working at the schools.
Although they probably could reach out to
um a specific person that is in that field.
Is that
good
for a second question
that I it was kind of both of them. They were very
Oh
yeah.
So is that, is that it for you, Miss Brown?
-- That is it
-- for me? Unless anyone has any questions, I'm happy to
um answer them.
Ok.
And what we might do is we'll let um M Ingham go ahead and
then we can have questions across the board for everyone because I wanna make
that we do have time for, um, Miss Karen
Ingham to speak from Dutchess Community College.
So I'm gonna turn it over to her and just keep putting your questions in the chat.
I'll try to get to them, um, and, and bring them on to the end if we, if we have time.
Go ahead, Karen.
-- All right. Well,
-- thank you everybody. It's a pleasure to be here this afternoon.
Um I'm here to talk a little bit about um what you might wanna think about
doing when you're still in high school to prepare you for entry at the college level
and uh not just community college. I mean, we're an excellent choice.
Um We have a low tuition and we do offer a
variety of allied health programs you can see on the screen,
the college offers offers programs that might
take perhaps two semesters to complete.
So those that are certificate programs are either a semester
or two in length if you're a full time student.
Um and then we have programs that are designed
for you to go directly into the workforce.
So if you're interested in perhaps um
becoming a paramedic or working as an EMT,
um if you're interested in, if you like working in the in health care,
but not sure you wanna have direct patient care,
you might think about something like clinical lab technician.
Um Our programs are registered through the state And if you do need to have a license,
once you complete your programs here at Dutchess,
you're eligible to take the state licensing exams.
And that typically will open a lot of doors and, uh,
the employment opportunities will basically, you know,
hopefully continue to fall in our graduates lapse.
If you're interested in transferring to a four year school, you're interested.
I, I looked at the list people,
a lot of people wanted to be doctors and physical therapists and nurses and,
um, all those high level jobs. I mean, Dutchess is a great place to start.
Even if you're thinking,
um, you know, you know, for sure you wanna continue on.
It really doesn't matter where you start, but it matters where you finish.
So we are an excellent choice, especially during,
um, online teaching.
You know, when maybe you want to be the next Doctor Fauci,
we have a public health program,
um, that is articulated with Suny Albany, which means
you can take the two years, uh, of courses, full time at Dutchess
and all of your credits will transfer to University of Albany.
So you can complete and get your bachelor's degree in public health
or you may choose to stay and get your masters in public health.
Um, so there are a lot of opportunities we also have, um,
what we call the Liberal Arts science pathway.
So if you do wanna be that physical therapist, you wanna be that, um, dentist,
you wanna be the doctor.
You wanna be the occupational therapist.
You can again, start at dutchess.
Get two years of education, take all your sciences,
your general education that you would normally take at a
four year school as a freshman or a sophomore.
And then those credits transfer, um, to your institutions.
We have students who transfer all over the place.
Um, they may, a lot of them go to Suny Binghamton.
It has an excellent science reputation.
Suny Stony Brook, Suny, New Paul University of Albany.
And of course, Marist, uh Mount Saint Mary's.
Um, we have hi and the students who go through dutchess
and transfer, they have a very high success rate.
Once they transfer, our studies have shown
that um our graduates typically uh do better
at a four year institution than other transfer students
as well as some of their original students that started there as a freshman.
So right in your, in your neighborhood, you know, you've got Duchess and,
and some of our tech jobs, you know, a semester, two years, four years, I mean,
you can just keep building on as was already mentioned.
And then before you know, it,
um you can be out there doing what you hope to do
while you're in high school.
I'm gonna tell you probably the same thing your mother has told you.
Your father has told you,
your guidance counselors have told you and your teachers have told you
if you are interested in health care,
you need to work hard at the sciences, your biology classes,
if you're lucky enough and you, maybe you're doing a P biology,
maybe with Miss Glancy or Missus mcfarland.
I mean, you're gonna walk out and you're gonna do very well when you get to your, your,
your institution of choice.
Um,
but, um, you know, continue with your chemistry,
continue with your math.
Um,
you really want to make sure you have sharp skills
because that's not gonna go away as you enter into,
um, the courses at the college level.
You also want to try to
be mindful about your senior year. I know it's senioritis kicks in but you want to
m make sure that you are challenging yourself, pick courses.
I mean, obviously any courses that you need to get your diploma,
but if you have the opportunity to take those challenging courses,
those A P courses, if that's a recommendation,
we would highly recommend that you do that.
You wanna show your, um, your college as you go through the admission process
that, um, you're not afraid of hard course work.
Um,
they don't necessarily like to see a whole bunch of electives.
Electives are great, right? Because how do you know what you wanna do?
I know there's seventh graders, eighth graders, ninth graders,
everyone's here today.
Very few people know for sure what they wanna do.
Or even if they think they know what they wanna do,
they might still end up changing their mind.
And so by taking an elective, maybe a computer class or,
or maybe a forensic science class, something outside of your normal, uh,
course options.
Who knows?
That experience might, might help you really fine tune what you wanna study at your,
at your institution.
Um, and then if you're worried about your ranking, if you're taking an A P class,
if you get a B plus
in a college level biology class,
OK. Put that in your essay.
You know, I, I chose to challenge myself.
Um I took college level calculus.
I chose to challenge myself in my senior year or my junior year
because I think it's important to, you know, if I'm capable, I should,
I should try to do it
and uh you know,
get position yourself, you know, for that,
for that uh transfer to the four year school.
Um
Anything else? Amy?
I don't wanna, I, I'm just looking at the time I wanna give opportunity for,
for everyone to ask questions.
-- Absolutely. We did have a few questions
-- come in.
-- Um
-- Someone was asking
about taking classes the best way
-- to take these classes
-- while they're in high school.
And I do think
-- you
-- definitely wanna check with your counselor.
-- You
-- can look online and um see our course handbook.
I do understand what Miss Ingham was saying about electives.
You wanna push yourself with your core content classes,
but it is really great. Um particularly for the health sciences.
-- Our anatomy
-- and physiology class is a great way
to figure out if that's something that you,
that you enjoy.
Um I know over at
Ketchum, Miss Gorman is teaching that class and, and she's on the call today.
Um So you wanna, you wanna see these courses talking to your teachers too,
specifically, your science teachers.
Um They can make recommendations about specific um courses that they have
-- on here And I see Miss mcfarland
-- is on here too.
-- Um
-- So I'm trying to just wanna see if I have um
any
hospital.
-- Um So
-- I think what we can do if um you wanna raise your, your hand, we can um come off Mike
and um but I wanna make sure we don't have everybody coming off Mike um at once.
Um so we can try that and if it gets a little bit, I see them,
we will um go to the chat box but
I know sometimes it's easier just to,
to raise your hand and I'll look for your hand coming up
on the screen and try to call on you for questions.
Um So ami
you have a question if you wanna come off.
-- Um I can actually unmute you if you wanna ask
-- your question.
-- Um Are
-- there any like books that you read
that really like impact you and influence you to
-- go into the medical
-- field?
Great question.
Uh I'm gonna turn it over to one of our,
-- our professionals because I'm not in the medical
-- field,
I'll answer that one.
So, um I, um I always, I still love them. I like mystery novels.
I like, you know, kind of like crime and mystery and then,
um
you know, all, all those series, you know, like, uh, I don't know,
but I just like to solve mysteries.
Um,
kind of like it's a puzzle and I tie that in
with studying science where we always don't know the answer,
but we do the research to try to get to that point.
So I would think if you're interested in mystery novels,
you might wanna think about, you know, um working in a lab,
um working in health care because
that's all about healthcare,
trying to figure out what's going on with the physiology of our patients.
Great
other questions. Um I'll look to see if you raise your hand and
-- get you to on
-- mute.
-- Don't be shy.
-- Ok, Gavin, you have your hand up.
You can, uh come off mute, but
most volunteer programs were canceled because of the Coronavirus.
Do you know what hospitals are doing?
-- Like if they're doing anything
-- virtual?
That's a great question.
I don't know if, can you hear me?
Yes.
I don't know if the hospitals are doing anything virtual for volunteers.
Um
I'm not sure what a volunteer would do. Uh, virtually.
Um,
you know, I know many of even the uh clinicals that the,
uh, you know,
nursing students and nurse practitioner students are virtual right now.
They're not even doing in person for those. Um those, some of those are virtual, but
I'm not sure about uh for volunteers.
I don't know of anything.
OK.
And I think, um to, to your point, Gavin and others are probably thinking of it.
It's just really just checking in with um your counselors
to hear if they've heard anything they can reach out.
You can you, you know,
I always tell people if you have a question, you're more than welcome to email me.
I may not know the answer, but I will work hard to try to find it out, uh find it for you.
Um But ii, I do think that um particularly because of, of the pandemic,
the health care sciences are really limiting right now having
um people come in but perhaps that they're working um
-- to develop some, some remote
-- opportunities.
I, I just wanna, I'm sorry, I just wanna say one thing. Um So
what we've done,
we do have a couple of college students that are doing temperature taking
because because of the pandemic, we've had to station people
in front of uh all of our different offices.
So um that is one thing to potentially uh you know, look, look into,
they might have temperature takers that sit in the front.
Right. Great. Good point.
-- Yeah, I think that some of these uh newer
-- needs are developing as this
is
new. So,
-- um, it
-- certainly, uh, is something to keep checking in on. Um, and, and obviously
there's certain things that you can do at certain ages. So, um,
you, as you get, um, closer to graduation or post graduation,
more opportunities will open up for you.
-- Um, I do
-- know,
-- I want to be sensitive
-- to time and I do know we have one more poll question.
Um, I believe.
Um, so I don't know if Doctor mclaughlin, if you wanna launch that, it,
it speaking to,
I know a few people have asked um
what other professions we're gonna be talking about?
And um we are interested in that and we can go back
through the chat to see if we have um captured those.
-- Do we have one more pool?
-- Yes. OK, good.
-- So, um these, these um are one of the, like
-- I think it was the top 10
professions that came from the survey that we um collected data from you.
-- And we're just
-- trying to get a sense on
-- um working with the
-- professionals that we have access to um who we might
be able to arrange for the future um Wednesday series that are coming up.
-- So,
-- um I think the Zoom,
-- the
-- Zoom platform is gonna provide us a great number of opportunities,
but it's always good to know
um where your interest lies.
-- Um And you may, you may be choosing
-- one of
these fields.
And then after hearing someone else speak about
their field that you had not considered.
That might be very interesting to you too. So, that's the, the great part.
There's no, there's no bad one to join. So
we'll just give it a few more seconds.
-- And if some people are just reading
-- through them,
-- we have about 60
-- 5% of you have voted
a few more
and then we can, um,
end the pole
at about 70% now.
So obviously, doctors, um, doctor is still at the top of our list. Um
But it's great to see some of these other professions and I feel um
that now that you'll go back to this slide and see the
different categories of the healthcare professions
um for the support versus practitioners.
Um That'll be really helpful for you too to be thinking about.
So I am thrilled again, you can see the results coming up on the pole.
Um I think you can see them
and um
I just wanna thank again our speakers. So thank you again to
La Laney
Valmont. Thank you again to Karen
Ingham
and especially to um the fabulous women that I had
the opportunity to work with to put this together.
So,
um a nice round of silent applause to Doctor mcla
and
to Laney Krauts and to Mary Jane Bertram for all of your
efforts in meeting with us to uh talk through this series.
I'm so excited for what we have. Um Moving forward
and um, thank you so much to our students for,
for joining us today and again to Miss Gorman
and to Miss mcfarland and Miss um,
my,
-- I'm
-- gonna say her last name wrong.
I don't want a Matt,
-- I
-- think that here.
Um, so thank you to the three of you for your help in getting this off the ground too.
So, um, with that, we were gonna stop recording and um,
wish the rest of you a wonderful afternoon
and we will see you again in December.
Um
at
I think it was the eight
18th. Let me look quick on my calendar.
So make sure I get the third Wednesday of December
and it is December 16th. So we will be back on December 16th.
I will continue to send you emails again if you did not get my email today,
make sure you look in your um spam or your trash or
your junk folder to see if um uh it might be there.
But um that is where I will be um sending the emails.
I also do put these links in the calendar. So on any of our web pages, if you click on
your calendar, building events, calendar, you'll see the the month calendar.
And um these will be on there called Career Zoom Healthcare Series.
So, um again, don't hesitate to email any questions.
Thank you for all the thank yous that are coming up through the chat.
Um And we really look forward to
um hosting more of these for you. Have a great.